Audience:

Is PianoCheetah for you??  Well, are youuu...

Steve?  boom - you are my target audience.

an open mic hippy who wants to play rock and pop songs that are way beyond
your abilities?
   yeah, you'll dig it.  I promise.

classically trained?  a pianist who can play flawless Chopin and Rach?
   naw man.  you already did everything the hard way.  stay on your path.

a DJ?
   YEP!  Also, quit bein a slacker and play.  And NO MORE TECHNO.

a kid who hasn't hit puberty yet?
   naw, Steve has a fowl mouth on occasion.

A 15 year old who plays some crappy guitar to impress the trans boys?
   Guitar will probably work best for you here.
   But piano is also worth a try, my friend.  Better yet, drums.

A trans boy?
   hell yeah.

A senior citizen who finally might try piano cuz, pfff, why not?
   PianoCheetah is for you, my darlin.  Also, I love you.  Unless you're male.

A karaoke singer who can't dance worth beans?
   Hell yeah - sit down, play better music for that pretty mouth you got.

A computer programming Dad who's kids are old and loves pop piano?
   Hey, are you Steve?  But yeah.



Why Learning Piano Makes You Smarter
David Hicken May 29, 2015
Learning to play the piano is no easy task, and of the thousands of people who b
egin lessons each year, many will unfortunately quit within a couple of years.
This is mostly due to poor instruction and bad practice techniques, but the bott
om line is that people find playing the piano to be very challenging and only a
small number of people have what it takes to really develop mastery.  What does
it take?  Patience and Discipline.
Piano lessons involve the study of two very different things:
Learning to play the instrument
Learning to read and decipher music notation
Putting these two skills together requires a tremendous amount of brain power, u
nlike anything else.  If we could see a meter that registers the brain activity
of a piano student when sight-reading a piece of music, the meter would most sur
ely be in the red zone.
Playing the piano requires translating a series of dots on a page into finger mo
vements - all within a fraction of a second.  When I see the note D in a piece o
f music, I no longer even think about it being a D, but my finger immediately fi
res and plays the correct note.  This happens very quickly.  How can I do this?
 Because Ive done it every day for years and years.
If you could look into the brain of a great pianist while they are playing, you
would notice that theyre not thinking in terms of letters, notes and keys - ther
e is absolutely no time for that.  If theyre thinking anything at all, its about
 the feel of each hand position and the movements that are necessary to go from
one area of the keyboard to another.  Giant strides are made in piano playing wh
en you no longer need to think.  You just see the notes and your fingers respond
.
How do you get to this point?  Not by practicing for hours and hours or sufferin
g through tedious exercises that make you miserable, but simply by working at it
 every single day for short periods of time, and ideally, twice per day.  We all
 know that in order to achieve an ideal body we must exercise consistently.  Unf
ortunately, most of us dont, and theres really no difference between this and pl
aying the piano.
This is where Patience and Discipline come into play.  If only we could commit t
o working at the piano every day without fail for short, manageable periods of t
ime, then progress will surely be made.
Here is a list of some of the elements that our brain (and body) has to process
when playing the piano:
the notes to play
the steady beat
the rhythms that are woven throughout that steady beat
the key (or scale) upon which the piece has been created
the time signature (or how the beats are grouped together)
the hand shape and position for each part of the piece
the force with which the keys are struck
the length of each note
the gradual or sudden changes in finger pressure throughout the piece
the balance between melody and accompaniment
the constant adjustments necessary when the note you just played didnt sound cor
rectly
the jump from one area of the piano to another
the sound of the notes that we are playing and their volume
Piano music uses two clefs, and the names of notes are different for each one.
Most instruments read from just one clef, and mostly play one note at a time.  I
t is possible to play 12 notes at one time on the piano.  What? Yes, your thumbs
 can actually play two notes at once, however to play six notes in each hand at
the same time is only theoretical and would be extremely rare.  Some people migh
t mention the fact that piano music can have clusters of notes played with the f
ists and arms, but in my opinion this is not music and is just silly.
So we have seen that a pianist has a LOT of information to process, but heres th
e really important part:  All of that information is being processed very quickl
y right now!  In the middle of a piece, there is no going back, only forward.  N
o time to think about something, or even change your mind. Another part of the p
uzzle is that everything you are playing right now is based on what you saw just
 fractions of a second earlier, so there is a memory component to it as well.
What profession requires the brain to process this much data so quickly?  Ive al
ways imagined that perhaps a pilots job is comparable, considering all that they
 need to keep track of, but I recently asked a good friend who has been a pilot
for many years and he said oh playing the piano is far more difficult than flyin
g a plane!
The processing of so much data so quickly is the ultimate workout for your brain
.  Theres no way that your brain cannot benefit from learning the piano.  It is
my belief that it can enable you to learn foreign languages more easily, solve c
omplex issues more easily, remember things a little better etc.
But rather than quit when you are overwhelmed, simply commit to working at the p
iano for a small amount of time - every day - for the rest of your life!
I hope you found this article helpful.  Feel free to email me with any questions
.
Musically Yours,
David Hicken

- See more at: http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://david
hicken.com/advice_for_pianists/why_learning_piano_makes_you_smarter/#sthash.XyL0
ac1f.dpuf





Typically the rhythm guitarist, drummer and bass player set the groove. If they'
re not locking, then the drummer and bass player should set the groove, especial
ly for R&B. The drummer, bassist and guitarist should all play on the same place
 within those cute little Gaussian curves that are the beat.

What hear in your question is that the rhythm section isn't locking and you want
 to know why.

So the first thing to do is play to a metronome or drum machine. Are you all pla
ying at steady tempo throughout the song with and without the metronome? Or does
 the metronome appear to speed up and slow down to one or more of you?

If tempo's okay, then start the drummer playing with the metronome as far behind
 the beat as you want. Then have the bassist come in and hit the same beat. Then
 you come in.

Do this for a few minutes and hopefully everybody will be on the same page. Try
playing the song again.
