I tried screen recording pianocheetah to get a video but my dang app won't
   open unless it has exclusive access to the computer audio.
   And a screen recorder uses the audio too.
   I'll have to fix that.  But not today sigh.

nosoundsigh.mp4 is a silent video of my app in action.
   - showing track edit and full screen
   - showing hear (showing every note of the song)
             play (showing a small subset of 5 of those notes to play -
                   what I call "easy mode")
             practice (splitting the song into 4 bar subsections to practice)
   - and light then dark mode

   you can see that your icons looked smushed because of so much border in the
   .png files.  The subject should go all the way to the edge for max resolution


4 screenshots
   darkmode and lightmode  trackedit and fullscreen
   so you can zoom in and look at pixels


Ok, icons list...


app icons - 32x32 png, 24x24 png, and svg for these

   pianocheetah
      that was lookin good :)

   midicfg
      oh much better - maybe make the head of the plug a little shorter
      and the metal of the plug only a teeeeny tiny bit shorter so it'll look
      more square with good resolution  (oooor somethin)

toolbar icons - 32x32 png and svg

   "repeat icon" (refresh)
      good, but the arrows are hard to make out at 32px

   "hear icon"
      very good!  flip the ear so it's a left ear, please :)
      (not sure why but I like a left ear better)

   "play icon"
      pretttty good i think

   "practic icon"
      can you make it look a little brain-ier?  but def good

   "view icon"
      it's ok, could maybe be a little more descriptive,
      but pretty good

   "settings icon"
      I like it - hopefully when enlarged it's perfect

   "see icon"
      maybe a little more white?  but def on the right track
      note that this isn't in the toolbar
      it's part of the track editor and if clicked on,
         that track's notes are displayed

   "inactive hand icon", "active hand icon"
      These shouldn't look red and green as they're really not active/inactive.
      And I think I liked your earlier hands like in the file
         "so far/IMG_7912.JPG"
      These are also not toolbar icons but part of the track editor.
      Ideally you could give me 3 left hand icons with
         1 2 and 3 within the left hand icon
      and 4 5 6 7 within the right hand icon
      (there are 7 full octaves on a piano)

      You can just barely make out me doing a terrible rendition of this in
      the video - but those icons are squashed and also my numbers
      are impossible to read heheh.

   octave bitmap - let's skip this one and you can give me another

   an "open" icon (folder icon for opening a new song)
      doesn't have to be a folder, but that's pretty universal for open

      maybe an up and down icon to go with it
         (pick prev,next song in list without a file open dialog picker)
